# 2023 Fall Real Analysis

::ProblemBlock{number=1}
#problem
Let $f$ be a positive continuous function on $[0,\,1]$.  Prove that 
$$
\lim_{p \rightarrow \infty} \|f\|_{L^p([0,\,1])} = \|f\|_{L^{\infty}([0,\,1])}.
$$

#proof
First note that
$$
\|f\|_p=\left(\int_0^1 |f|^pdx\right)^{1/p}\leq \left(\int_0^1 \|f\|_\infty^pdx\right)^{1/p}=(\|f\|_\infty^p)^{1/p}=\|f\|_\infty.
$$
Consequently, $\limsup_{p\to \infty}\|f\|_p\leq \|f\|_\infty$.  

On the other hand, suppose that $0<r<\|f\|_\infty$.  (If $\|f\|_\infty=0$, then $f$ is constantly $0$ and the result is trivial.)  Set $E_r:=\{x\in [0,1] \ : \ f(x)>r\}$; since $r<\|f\|_\infty$, we have that $m(E_r)>0$.  Now note that 
$$
\|f\|_p=\left(\int_0^1 |f|^pdx\right)^{1/p}\geq \left(\int_{E_r}|f|^pdx\right)^{1/p}\geq \left(\int_{E_r}r^pdx\right)^{1/p}=r\cdot m(E_r)^{1/p}.
$$ 
It follows that $\liminf_{p\to \infty}\|f\|_p\geq r.$  Since $r<\|f\|_\infty$ was arbitrary, we get $\liminf_{p\to \infty}\|f\|_p\geq \|f\|_\infty$.

The two inequalities together yield the desired conclusion.
 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=2}
#problem
Suppose that $f:\mathbb{R}\to \mathbb{R}$ is absolutely continuous and $g:[a,b]\to \mathbb{R}$ is absolutely continuous and strictly monotonic.  Prove that $f\circ g:[a,b]\to \mathbb{R}$ is absolutely continuous.

#proof
Fix $\epsilon>0$ and take $\delta>0$ as in the definition of absolute continuity for $f$ for this given $\epsilon>0$.  Now take $\eta>0$ as in the definition of absolute continuity for $g$ for this given $\delta$.  We claim that this $\eta$ witnesses the absolute continuity for $f\circ g$ for the given $\epsilon$.  To see this, suppose that $(a_j,b_j)$, $j=1,\ldots,n$, is a collection of pairwise disjoint open intervals such that $$\sum_{i=1}^n (b_j-a_j)<\eta.$$  Since $g$ is strictly monotonic and continuous, we see that $(c_j,d_j):=g((a_j,b_j))$ is a collection of pairwise disjoint open intervals; moreover, by the choice of $\eta$, we have that $\sum_{j=1}^n (d_j-c_j)=\sum_{j=1}^n |g(b_j)-g(a_j)|<\delta$.  By the choice of $\delta$, we have that $\sum_{j=1}^n |f(g(b_j))-f(g(a_j))|=\sum_{j=1}^n|f(d_j)-f(c_j)|<\eta$, as desired.

 
::

::ProblemBlock{number=3}
#problem
Suppose that $f\in L^\infty(0,1)$ is such that
$$
\int_{(0,1)}g'(x)f(x)\,dx=0
$$
for every absolutely continuous  function $g$ on $[0,1]$ for which $g(0)=g(1)=0$.  Prove that $f$ equals to a constant almost everywhere.

#proof
By the Lebesgue differentiation theorem, it suffices to show that $f$ takes the same value at all its Lebesgue points in $(0,\,1)$. Let $x$ and $y$ be any two Lebesgue points of $f$ in $(0,\,1)$ with $x < y$. For $h > 0$ small, let $g_h$ be the Lipschitz (hence absolutely continuous) function that is zero outside of $[x-h/2,\,y+h/2]$, one in $[x+h/2,\,y-h/2]$, and linear on the remaining intervals of length $h$ centered at $x$ and $y$. Then
$$
0 = \int_0^1 g_h'f = \frac{1}{h} \int_{x-h/2}^{x+h/2} f - \frac{1}{h} \int_{y-h/2}^{y+h/2} f.
$$
Letting $h$ go to zero (and recalling that $x$ and $y$ are Lebesgue points of $f$), we conclude that $f(x) = f(y)$, as desired.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=4}
#problem
Fix $f \in L^{6/5}(\mathbb{R})$ and $g \in L^6(\mathbb{R})$. Let $h$ be the function on $\mathbb{R}$ defined by
$$
h(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} f(x-y)g(y)\,dy.
$$
Prove that $h$ is continuous.

#proof
Let $p_t(x):=f(x+t)-f(t)$.  Applying [Hölder's inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hölder%27s_inequality){.text-cyan-700} to the function $h(x+t) - h(x)$, we reduce the problem to showing that $\|p_t\|_{6/5}\to 0$ as $t\to 0$.  For $\epsilon > 0$, let $\tilde{f}$ be a continuous, compactly supported function for which $\|f-\tilde{f}\|_{6/5}<\frac{\epsilon}{3}$.   Let $\tilde{p}_t(x):=\tilde{f}(x+t)-\tilde{f}(x)$.  Then
$$
\|p_t\|_{6/5} \leq \frac{2\epsilon}{3} + \|\tilde{p}_t\|_{6/5},
$$
and the right hand side is smaller than $\epsilon$ for $|t|$ sufficiently small since $\tilde{f}$ is continuous.

::

::ProblemBlock{number=5}
#problem
Fix $1\leq p\leq\infty$ and $f\in L^p(\mathbb{R})$.
Show that 
$$
\int^\infty_{-\infty}\frac{|f(t)|}{1+t^2} \, dt<\infty.
$$


#proof
If $p=1$, then 
$$
\int^\infty_{-\infty}\frac{|f(t)|}{1+t^2} \, dt\leq \int^\infty_{-\infty}|f(t)| \, dt<\infty.
$$
If $p=\infty$, then 
$$
\int^\infty_{-\infty}\frac{|f(t)|}{1+t^2} \, dt\leq\|f\|_{L^\infty}\int^\infty_{-\infty}\frac{1}{1+t^2}\, dt<\infty.
$$
If $1<p<\infty$, we use [Young's inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Young%27s_inequality_for_products){.text-cyan-700}
$$
|f(t)|\leq \frac 1p|f(t)|^p+\frac 1q\leq |f(t)|^p+1,
$$
where $q=p/(p-1)$. Then 
$$
\frac{|f(t)|}{1+t^2}\leq |f(t)|^p+\frac{1}{1+t^2}
$$
and we conclude by noting that the right hand side of this inequality is integrable.


::

 

::ProblemBlock{number=6}
#problem
Fix $f\in L^1(\mathbb{R})$. Show that 
the series
$$
\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k}\, f(x+\sqrt k)
$$
converges absolutely for almost every $x\in \mathbb{R}$.
            

#proof
For any set $E$, let $1_{E}$ denote its characteristic function. For any $a<b$, we have
$$
\int_a^b \left(\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k}\, |f(x+\sqrt k)|\right) dx\leq \|f\|_{L^1} \sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k} \,1_{[a+\sqrt k, b+\sqrt k]}.
$$
We consider 
$$
\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k} \,1_{[a+\sqrt k, b+\sqrt k]}(x).
$$
If $x<b+1$, then 
$$
\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k} \,1_{[a+\sqrt k, b+\sqrt k]}(x)\leq\sum_{k=1}^{b-a+1}\frac{1}{\sqrt k}\leq 2\sqrt{b-a+1}.
$$
If $x\geq b+1$, then 
$$
\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k} \,1_{[a+\sqrt k, b+\sqrt k]}(x)\leq \int_{x-b-1}^{x-a+1}\frac{1}{\sqrt t} dt
\leq 
2\sqrt{x-a+1}-2\sqrt{x-b-1}.
$$
Thus there exists a constant $C(a,b)$ such that 
$$
\int_a^b \left(\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k}\, |f(x+\sqrt k)|\right) dx\leq C(a,b).
$$
Thus for almost all $x$, $\sum_{k=1}^\infty\frac{1}{\sqrt k}\, f(x+\sqrt k)$ is absolutely convergent. 

::
